A friend asked about my spiritual practice. Here about it briefly.

From the moment I realize that I am waking up I turn to God (the One) and say מודה as commanded in the Jewish traditional religious law, הלכה, and from that moment on I try to spend the day with the One. Being with the One is like being with a person but a person is in a specific place whereas the One is all around all the time. First it requires constant effort. Over time the presence of the One becomes a permanent reality and the usual reality becomes a means of interaction with Him. It is possible to experience the presence of the One because our innermost point, the soul, neshama, is of the essence of the One, it is always connected to the One. We may be unaware of this but my turning to the One we connect with Him and over time our awareness merges with Him. Although unity, ייחוד, with the One deprives us of interaction with Him. Just as a person craves Unity, after arriving at Unity, one does a step back in order to be able to love Him. This state is called closeness, דבקות
What I have described is an external practice because you practice it when you are awake by being with the One while doing what you have to to maintain your physical existence and help others. Being with the One also helps us see what is really important in life.  One thing worth mentioning is that practically it is impossible to maintain the awareness of the One all the time because some activities require focus. In such cases it is good to ask for His help before diving in, to dedicate the activity and its fruits to the One and to thank Him after the activity.

There also is an internal practice known as meditation. In meditation we withdraw the attention from the external, from the body, from feelings, from thoughts, from the attention itself etc. Withdrawing the attention means not being involved. That layer of reality that we started to ignore tries to grab the attention back but as we continue it comes down. The famous analogy is waves: the calmer the surface the clearer we see. It also shows us that just as we are not the clothes, we are not the body with its feelings, thoughts, attention etc. Our awareness is in the external experiences through the external senses but there is so much more.
It is important to know that meditation is an exercise that should be done daily, preferably early when the mind is fresh but disassociating from the external, the body, feelings, thoughts, 
attention and deeper is incompatible with the need to maintain the physical existence. Nevertheless this practice is important because over time it deepens our knowledge of the world, ourselves and also leads to the state of unity and then closeness.
For meditation it is important to have a healthy spine. When the mind calms, Light starts to flow from above the tip of the head down the spine. Light because this is the experience. All the body lights up, the world lights up. But if the spine is not healthy, the Light strikes the blockages causing discomfort at least and instead of continuing down the spine goes laterally causing disbalance. Fixing the spine is easy through stretching. Before stretching, warm up the muscles along the spine preferably through exercise.
For meditation it is important to be calm and positive. Negative or strong feelings may become stronger. It is like water. You can pour water on grass or on weeds. Negative feelings are caused by poor health and attitude. Good health depends on diet, hygiene, movement, stretching, sleep, attitude and owning your attention.
For meditation it is important to study the deepest ideas from physics, psychology, philosophy, mysticism and religion, ideas that touch the essence of reality and mind. They expand the mind and help during meditation. They also help us describe the methods and experiences to others.
In other words, it is impossible and dangerous to go directly into the deepest meditation practices. First it is good to improve the body, the feelings and attitude, the mind. This is why we start by learning how to perform physical commandments, מצוות, of God. Then we learn how to perform them on deeper and deeper levels. By performing the commandments we gradually change ourselves and become perceptive of the bigger reality. Commandments and religious rules, הלכות, cover all layers of a human being. They train us to be selfless. It is important to know that although most commandments have physical expression, they are not for the physical world but the soul to live a divine life in the physical world.

A third practice is helping others. One of the core principles of Judaism is to proactively but respectfully help others for their sake when it does not contradict the commandments.
Helping others includes creating environments in which they can come closer to the One and help others as well.
Helping others includes all living beings.
Helping others even includes the One because when we observe His commandments simply because He commanded, we do it selflessly out of devotion and love. When we live a divine life, we help other discover Him and come closer. When we live with the One we fulfill the purpose of creation.

Meditation is a dive into the mind and the essence of reality. Living with the One is unveiling of the One in the external world. Helping others leads to selflessness. Having no self unifies us with the Infinite. Acting without self interest makes us Infinite. The catch is to act selflessly without the goal of being selfless and unite with the Infinite. Still knowing the mechanism is useful.

You asked me what system I follow and I said Judaism. I was born Jewish. I have been trying to study Torah and observe God’s commandments. Through their observance and through the study of Torah I hope to become a more proactive, respectful and better human and come closer to God.
Do other systems provide the same tools? Yes but not all in one. Most spiritual systems have intermediaries between us and the One, or equate the world with the One, or completely disconnect us from the One, or see selflessness as a means. The closest system to Jewish mysticism is Sufism but I am not a fan of Islam for reasons that are a different topic.

What I have described above requires constant effort but it is doable and it is a lot of fun because the world lightens up, the mind expands etc. Hope this can be helpful.
